<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 2</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
			</h2>
			<section id="scene-2-1" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
				</h3><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-31" id="noteref-31" epub:type="noteref">31</a>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosala</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Castruccio</b></i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>You say you would fain be taken for an eminent courtier?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Castruccio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">’Tis the very main<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-32" id="noteref-32" epub:type="noteref">32</a> of my ambition.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>Let me see: you have a reasonable good face for’t already, and your night-cap expresses your ears sufficient largely. I would have you learn to twirl the strings of your band with a good grace, and in a set speech, at th’ end of every sentence, to hum three or four times, or blow your nose till it smart again, to recover your memory. When you come to be a president in criminal causes, if you smile upon a prisoner, hang him; but if you frown upon him and threaten him, let him be sure to scape the gallows.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Castruccio</td>
					<td>I would be a very merry president.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>Do not sup o’ nights; ’twill beget you an admirable wit.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Castruccio</td>
					<td>Rather it would make me have a good stomach to quarrel; for they say, your roaring boys eat meat seldom, and that makes them so valiant. But how shall I know whether the people take me for an eminent fellow?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>I will teach a trick to know it: give out you lie a-dying, and if you hear the common people curse you, be sure you are taken for one of the prime night-caps.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-33" id="noteref-33" epub:type="noteref">33</a></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter an Old Lady</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>You come from painting now.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Old Lady</td>
					<td>From what?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>Why, from your scurvy face-physic. To behold thee not painted inclines somewhat near a miracle. These in thy face here were deep ruts and foul sloughs the last progress.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-34" id="noteref-34" epub:type="noteref">34</a> There was a lady in France that, having had the small-pox, flayed the skin off her face to make it more level; and whereas before she looked like a nutmeg-grater, after she resembled an abortive hedge-hog.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Old Lady</td>
					<td>Do you call this painting?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>No, no, but you call [it] careening<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-35" id="noteref-35" epub:type="noteref">35</a> of an old morphewed<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-36" id="noteref-36" epub:type="noteref">36</a> lady, to make her disembogue<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-37" id="noteref-37" epub:type="noteref">37</a> again: there’s rough-cast phrase to your plastic.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-38" id="noteref-38" epub:type="noteref">38</a></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Old Lady</td>
					<td>It seems you are well acquainted with my closet.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>One would suspect it for a shop of witchcraft, to find in it the fat of serpents, spawn of snakes, Jews’ spittle, and their young children’s ordure; and all these for the face. I would sooner eat a dead pigeon taken from the soles of the feet of one sick of the plague, than kiss one of you fasting. Here are two of you, whose sin of your youth is the very patrimony of the physician; makes him renew his foot-cloth with the spring, and change his high-pric’d courtezan with the fall of the leaf. I do wonder you do not loathe yourselves. Observe my meditation now. <p epub:type="z3998:verse"><span>What thing is in this outward form of man</span><br/>
					<span>To be belov’d? We account it ominous,</span><br/>
					<span>If nature do produce a colt, or lamb,</span><br/>
					<span>A fawn, or goat, in any limb resembling</span><br/>
					<span>A man, and fly from’t as a prodigy:</span><br/>
					<span>Man stands amaz’d to see his deformity</span><br/>
					<span>In any other creature but himself.</span><br/>
					<span>But in our own flesh though we bear diseases</span><br/>
					<span>Which have their true names only ta’en from beasts⁠—</span><br/>
					<span>As the most ulcerous wolf and swinish measle⁠—</span><br/>
					<span>Though we are eaten up of lice and worms,</span><br/>
					<span>And though continually we bear about us</span><br/>
					<span>A rotten and dead body, we delight</span><br/>
					<span>To hide it in rich tissue: all our fear,</span><br/>
					<span>Nay, all our terror, is, lest our physician</span><br/>
					<span>Should put us in the ground to be made sweet.⁠—</span><br/>
					<span>Your wife’s gone to Rome: you two couple, and get you to</span><br/>
					<span>the wells at Lucca to recover your aches. I have other work on foot.</span></p></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Castruccio</b> and Old Lady</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>I observe our duchess</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Is sick a-days, she pukes, her stomach seethes,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The fins of her eye-lids look most teeming blue,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-39" id="noteref-39" epub:type="noteref">39</a></span>
							<br/>
							<span>She wanes i’ the cheek, and waxes fat i’ the flank,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And, contrary to our Italian fashion,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Wears a loose-bodied gown: there’s somewhat in’t.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I have a trick may chance discover it,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>A pretty one; I have bought some apricocks,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The first our spring yields.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</b>, talking together apart</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">And so long since married?</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You amaze me.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i3">Let me seal your lips forever:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>For, did I think that anything but th’ air</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Could carry these words from you, I should wish</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You had no breath at all.⁠—Now, sir, in your contemplation?</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You are studying to become a great wise fellow.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>O, sir, the opinion of wisdom is a foul tetter<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-40" id="noteref-40" epub:type="noteref">40</a> that runs all over a man’s body: if simplicity direct us to have no evil, it directs us to a happy being; for the subtlest folly proceeds from the subtlest wisdom: let me be simply honest.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>I do understand your inside.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Do you so?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Because you would not seem to appear to th’ world</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Puff’d up with your preferment, you continue</span>
							<br/>
							<span>This out-of-fashion melancholy: leave it, leave it.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>Give me leave to be honest in any phrase, in any compliment whatsoever. Shall I confess myself to you? I look no higher than I can reach: they are the gods that must ride on winged horses. A lawyer’s mule of a slow pace will both suit my disposition and business; for, mark me, when a man’s mind rides faster than his horse can gallop, they quickly both tire.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>You would look up to heaven, but I think</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The devil, that rules i’ th’ air, stands in your light.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>O, sir, you are lord of the ascendant,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-41" id="noteref-41" epub:type="noteref">41</a> chief man with the duchess: a duke was your cousin-german remov’d. Say you were lineally descended from King Pepin, or he himself, what of this? Search the heads of the greatest rivers in the world, you shall find them but bubbles of water. Some would think the souls of princes were brought forth by some more weighty cause than those of meaner persons: they are deceiv’d, there’s the same hand to them; the like passions sway them; the same reason that makes a vicar go to law for a tithe-pig, and undo his neighbours, makes them spoil a whole province, and batter down goodly cities with the cannon.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</b> and Ladies</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Your arm, Antonio: do I not grow fat?</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I am exceeding short-winded.⁠—Bosola,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I would have you, sir, provide for me a litter;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Such a one as the Duchess of Florence rode in.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>The duchess us’d one when she was great with child.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>I think she did.⁠—Come hither, mend my ruff:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Here, when? thou art such a tedious lady; and</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Thy breath smells of lemon-pills: would thou hadst done!</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Shall I swoon under thy fingers? I am</span>
							<br/>
							<span>So troubled with the mother!<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-42" id="noteref-42" epub:type="noteref">42</a></span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> I fear too much.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>I have heard you say that the French courtiers</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Wear their hats on ‘fore that king.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>I have seen it.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>
								<span class="i3">In the presence?</span>
							</span>
							<br/>
							<br/>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Yes.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Why should not we bring up that fashion?</span>
							<br/>
							<span>’Tis ceremony more than duty that consists</span>
							<br/>
							<span>In the removing of a piece of felt.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Be you the example to the rest o’ th’ court;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Put on your hat first.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>You must pardon me:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I have seen, in colder countries than in France,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Nobles stand bare to th’ prince; and the distinction</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Methought show’d reverently.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>I have a present for your grace.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">For me, sir?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Apricocks, madam.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>O, sir, where are they?</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I have heard of none to-year<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-43" id="noteref-43" epub:type="noteref">43</a></span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> Good; her colour rises.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Indeed, I thank you: they are wondrous fair ones.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>What an unskilful fellow is our gardener!</span>
							<br/>
							<span>We shall have none this month.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Will not your grace pare them?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>No: they taste of musk, methinks; indeed they do.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>I know not: yet I wish your grace had par’d ’em.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Why?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>I forgot to tell you, the knave gardener,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Only to raise his profit by them the sooner,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Did ripen them in horse-dung.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>O, you jest.⁠—</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You shall judge: pray, taste one.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Indeed, madam,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I do not love the fruit.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Sir, you are loth</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To rob us of our dainties. ’Tis a delicate fruit;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>They say they are restorative.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">’Tis a pretty art,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>This grafting.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>’Tis so; a bettering of nature.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>To make a pippin grow upon a crab,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>A damson on a black-thorn.⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> How greedily she eats them!</span>
							<br/>
							<span>A whirlwind strike off these bawd farthingales!</span>
							<br/>
							<span>For, but for that and the loose-bodied gown,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I should have discover’d apparently<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-44" id="noteref-44" epub:type="noteref">44</a></span>
							<br/>
							<span>The young springal<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-45" id="noteref-45" epub:type="noteref">45</a> cutting a caper in her belly.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>I thank you, Bosola: they were right good ones,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>If they do not make me sick.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>
								<span class="i3">How now, madam!</span>
							</span>
							<br/>
							<br/>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>This green fruit and my stomach are not friends:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>How they swell me!</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> Nay, you are too much swell’d already.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>O, I am in an extreme cold sweat!</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">I am very sorry.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Lights to my chamber!⁠—O good Antonio,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I fear I am undone!</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Lights there, lights!</span>
							<br/>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</b> [and Ladies.</i>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>O my most trusty Delio, we are lost!</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I fear she’s fall’n in labour; and there’s left</span>
							<br/>
							<span>No time for her remove.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Have you prepar’d</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Those ladies to attend her; and procur’d</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That politic safe conveyance for the midwife</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Your duchess plotted?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>
								<span class="i3">I have.</span>
							</span>
							<br/>
							<br/>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Make use, then, of this forc’d occasion.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Give out that Bosola hath poison’d her</span>
							<br/>
							<span>With these apricocks; that will give some colour</span>
							<br/>
							<span>For her keeping close.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Fie, fie, the physicians</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Will then flock to her.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>For that you may pretend</span>
							<br/>
							<span>She’ll use some prepar’d antidote of her own,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Lest the physicians should re-poison her.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>I am lost in amazement: I know not what to think on’t.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-2-2" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
				</h3><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-46" id="noteref-46" epub:type="noteref">46</a>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosala</b> and Old Lady</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>So, so, there’s no question but her techiness<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-47" id="noteref-47" epub:type="noteref">47</a> and most vulturous eating of the apricocks are apparent signs of breeding, now?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Old Lady</td>
					<td>I am in haste, sir.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>There was a young waiting-woman had a monstrous desire to see the glass-house⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Old Lady</td>
					<td>Nay, pray, let me go. I will hear no more of the glass-house. You are still<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-48" id="noteref-48" epub:type="noteref">48</a> abusing women!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>Who, I? No; only, by the way now and then, mention your frailties. The orange-tree bears ripe and green fruit and blossoms all together; and some of you give entertainment for pure love, but more for more precious reward. The lusty spring smells well; but drooping autumn tastes well. If we have the same golden showers that rained in the time of Jupiter the thunderer, you have the same Danaes still, to hold up their laps to receive them. Didst thou never study the mathematics?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Old Lady</td>
					<td>What’s that, sir?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>Why, to know the trick how to make a many lines meet in one centre. Go, go, give your foster-daughters good counsel: tell them, that the devil takes delight to hang at a woman’s girdle, like a false rusty watch, that she cannot discern how the time passes.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit Old Lady.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Roderigo</b>, and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Grisolan</b></i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Shut up the court-gates.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Roderigo</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Why, sir? What’s the danger?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Shut up the posterns presently, and call</span>
							<br/>
							<span>All the officers o’ th’ court.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Grisolan</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>I shall instantly.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Who keeps the key o’ th’ park-gate?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Roderigo</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Forobosco.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Let him bring’t presently.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Grisolan</b> with Servants</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Servant</td>
					<td>O, gentleman o’ th’ court, the foulest treason!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> If that these apricocks should be poison’d now, Without my knowledge?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Servant</td>
					<td>There was taken even now a Switzer in the duchess’ bed-chamber⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Servant</td>
					<td>A Switzer!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Servant</td>
					<td>With a pistol⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Servant</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">There was a cunning traitor!</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Servant</td>
					<td>And all the moulds of his buttons were leaden bullets.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Servant</td>
					<td>O wicked cannibal!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Servant</td>
					<td>’Twas a French plot, upon my life.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Servant</td>
					<td>To see what the devil can do!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>[Are] all the officers here?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Servants</td>
					<td>We are.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Gentlemen,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>We have lost much plate, you know; and but this evening</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Jewels, to the value of four thousand ducats,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Are missing in the duchess’ cabinet.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Are the gates shut?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Servant</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">Yes.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>’Tis the duchess’ pleasure</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Each officer be lock’d into his chamber</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Till the sun-rising; and to send the keys</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Of all their chests and of their outward doors</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Into her bed-chamber. She is very sick.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Roderigo</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>At her pleasure.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>She entreats you take’t not ill: the innocent</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Shall be the more approv’d by it.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>Gentlemen o’ the wood-yard, where’s your Switzer now?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Servant</td>
					<td>By this hand, ’twas credibly reported by one o’ the black guard.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-49" id="noteref-49" epub:type="noteref">49</a></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt all except <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</b>.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>How fares it with the duchess?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">She’s expos’d</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Unto the worst of torture, pain, and fear.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Speak to her all happy comfort.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>How I do play the fool with mine own danger!</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You are this night, dear friend, to post to Rome:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>My life lies in your service.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Do not doubt me.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>O, ’tis far from me: and yet fear presents me</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Somewhat that looks like danger.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Believe it,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>’Tis but the shadow of your fear, no more:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>How superstitiously we mind our evils!</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The throwing down salt, or crossing of a hare,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Bleeding at nose, the stumbling of a horse,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Or singing of a cricket, are of power</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To daunt whole man in us. Sir, fare you well:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I wish you all the joys of a bless’d father;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And, for my faith, lay this unto your breast⁠—</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Old friends, like old swords, still are trusted best.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cariola</b></i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cariola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Sir, you are the happy father of a son:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Your wife commends him to you.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Blessed comfort!⁠—</span>
							<br/>
							<span>For heaven’ sake, tend her well: I ‘ll presently<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-50" id="noteref-50" epub:type="noteref">50</a></span>
							<br/>
							<span>Go set a figure for’s nativity.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-51" id="noteref-51" epub:type="noteref">51</a></span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-2-3" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span>
				</h3><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-52" id="noteref-52" epub:type="noteref">52</a>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosala</b>, with a dark lantern</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Sure I did hear a woman shriek: list, ha!</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And the sound came, if I receiv’d it right,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>]From the duchess’ lodgings. There’s some stratagem</span>
							<br/>
							<span>In the confining all our courtiers</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To their several wards: I must have part of it;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>My intelligence will freeze else. List, again!</span>
							<br/>
							<span>It may be ’twas the melancholy bird,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Best friend of silence and of solitariness,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The owl, that screamed so.⁠—Ha! Antonio!</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</b> with a candle, his sword drawn</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>I heard some noise.⁠—Who’s there? What art thou? Speak.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Antonio, put not your face nor body</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To such a forc’d expression of fear;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I am Bosola, your friend.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Bosola!⁠—</span>
							<br/>
							<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> This mole does undermine me.⁠—Heard you not</span>
							<br/>
							<span>A noise even now?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>
								<span class="i3">From whence?</span>
							</span>
							<br/>
							<br/>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">From the duchess’ lodging.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Not I: did you?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>
								<span class="i3">I did, or else I dream’d.</span>
							</span>
							<br/>
							<br/>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Let’s walk towards it.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">No: it may be ’twas</span>
							<br/>
							<span>But the rising of the wind.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Very likely.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Methinks ’tis very cold, and yet you sweat:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You look wildly.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>I have been setting a figure<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-53" id="noteref-53" epub:type="noteref">53</a></span>
							<br/>
							<span>For the duchess’ jewels.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Ah, and how falls your question?</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Do you find it radical?<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-54" id="noteref-54" epub:type="noteref">54</a></span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>What’s that to you?</span>
							<br/>
							<span>’Tis rather to be question’d what design,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>When all men were commanded to their lodgings,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Makes you a night-walker.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>In sooth, I ‘ll tell you:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Now all the court’s asleep, I thought the devil</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Had least to do here; I came to say my prayers;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And if it do offend you I do so,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You are a fine courtier.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> This fellow will undo me.⁠—</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You gave the duchess apricocks to-day:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Pray heaven they were not poison’d!</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Poison’d! a Spanish fig</span>
							<br/>
							<span>For the imputation!</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Traitors are ever confident</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Till they are discover’d. There were jewels stol’n too:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>In my conceit, none are to be suspected</span>
							<br/>
							<span>More than yourself.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>
								<span class="i3">You are a false steward.</span>
							</span>
							<br/>
							<br/>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Saucy slave, I ‘ll pull thee up by the roots.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>May be the ruin will crush you to pieces.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>You are an impudent snake indeed, sir:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Are you scarce warm, and do you show your sting?</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You libel<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-55" id="noteref-55" epub:type="noteref">55</a> well, sir?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>No, sir: copy it out,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And I will set my hand to’t.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> My nose bleeds.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>One that were superstitious would count</span>
							<br/>
							<span>This ominous, when it merely comes by chance.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Two letters, that are wrought here for my name,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-56" id="noteref-56" epub:type="noteref">56</a></span>
							<br/>
							<span>Are drown’d in blood!</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Mere accident.⁠—For you, sir, I ‘ll take order</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I’ the morn you shall be safe.⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> ’Tis that must colour</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Her lying-in.⁠—Sir, this door you pass not:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I do not hold it fit that you come near</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The duchess’ lodgings, till you have quit yourself.⁠—</span>
							<br/>
							<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> The great are like the base, nay, they are the same,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>When they seek shameful ways to avoid shame.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Antonio hereabout did drop a paper:⁠—</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Some of your help, false friend.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-57" id="noteref-57" epub:type="noteref">57</a>⁠—O, here it is.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>What’s here? a child’s nativity calculated!</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Reads.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>‘The duchess was deliver’d of a son, ’tween the hours twelve and one in the night, Anno Dom. 1504,’⁠—that’s this year⁠—‘decimo nono Decembris,’⁠—that’s this night⁠—‘taken according to the meridian of Malfi,’⁠—that’s our duchess: happy discovery!⁠—‘The lord of the first house being combust in the ascendant, signifies short life; and Mars being in a human sign, joined to the tail of the Dragon, in the eighth house, doth threaten a violent death. Caetera non scrutantur.’<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-58" id="noteref-58" epub:type="noteref">58</a> <p epub:type="z3998:verse"><span>Why, now ’tis most apparent; this precise fellow</span><br/>
					<span>Is the duchess’ bawd:⁠—I have it to my wish!</span><br/>
					<span>This is a parcel of intelligency<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-59" id="noteref-59" epub:type="noteref">59</a></span><br/>
					<span>Our courtiers were cas’d up for: it needs must follow</span><br/>
					<span>That I must be committed on pretence</span><br/>
					<span>Of poisoning her; which I ‘ll endure, and laugh at.</span><br/>
					<span>If one could find the father now! but that</span><br/>
					<span>Time will discover. Old Castruccio</span><br/>
					<span>I’ th’ morning posts to Rome: by him I ‘ll send</span><br/>
					<span>A letter that shall make her brothers’ galls</span><br/>
					<span>O’erflow their livers. This was a thrifty<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-60" id="noteref-60" epub:type="noteref">60</a> way!</span><br/>
					<span>Though lust do mask in ne’er so strange disguise,</span><br/>
					<span>She’s oft found witty, but is never wise.</span></p></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-2-4" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</span>
				</h3><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-61" id="noteref-61" epub:type="noteref">61</a>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</b></i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Sit: thou art my best of wishes. Prithee, tell me</span>
							<br/>
							<span>What trick didst thou invent to come to Rome</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Without thy husband?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Why, my lord, I told him</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I came to visit an old anchorite<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-62" id="noteref-62" epub:type="noteref">62</a></span>
							<br/>
							<span>Here for devotion.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Thou art a witty false one⁠—</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I mean, to him.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>You have prevail’d with me</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Beyond my strongest thoughts; I would not now</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Find you inconstant.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Do not put thyself</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To such a voluntary torture, which proceeds</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Out of your own guilt.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>
								<span class="i3">How, my lord!</span>
							</span>
							<br/>
							<br/>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">You fear</span>
							<br/>
							<span>My constancy, because you have approv’d<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-63" id="noteref-63" epub:type="noteref">63</a></span>
							<br/>
							<span>Those giddy and wild turnings in yourself.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Did you e’er find them?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Sooth, generally for women,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>A man might strive to make glass malleable,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Ere he should make them fixed.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">So, my lord.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>We had need go borrow that fantastic glass</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Invented by Galileo the Florentine</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To view another spacious world i’ th’ moon,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And look to find a constant woman there.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>This is very well, my lord.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Why do you weep?</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Are tears your justification? The self-same tears</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Will fall into your husband’s bosom, lady,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>With a loud protestation that you love him</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Above the world. Come, I ‘ll love you wisely,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That’s jealously; since I am very certain</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You cannot make me cuckold.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>I ‘ll go home</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To my husband.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>You may thank me, lady,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I have taken you off your melancholy perch,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Bore you upon my fist, and show’d you game,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And let you fly at it.⁠—I pray thee, kiss me.⁠—</span>
							<br/>
							<span>When thou wast with thy husband, thou wast watch’d</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Like a tame elephant:⁠—still you are to thank me:⁠—</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Thou hadst only kisses from him and high feeding;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>But what delight was that? ’Twas just like one</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That hath a little fing’ring on the lute,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Yet cannot tune it:⁠—still you are to thank me.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>You told me of a piteous wound i’ th’ heart,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And a sick liver, when you woo’d me first,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And spake like one in physic.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-64" id="noteref-64" epub:type="noteref">64</a></span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Who’s that?⁠⸺⁠</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter Servant</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Rest firm, for my affection to thee,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Lightning moves slow to’t.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Servant</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Madam, a gentleman,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That’s come post from Malfi, desires to see you.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Let him enter: I ‘ll withdraw.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Servant</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">He says</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Your husband, old Castruccio, is come to Rome,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Most pitifully tir’d with riding post.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</b></i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> Signior Delio! ’tis one of my old suitors.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>I was bold to come and see you.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Sir, you are welcome.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Do you lie here?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Sure, your own experience</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Will satisfy you no: our Roman prelates</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Do not keep lodging for ladies.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Very well:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I have brought you no commendations from your husband,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>For I know none by him.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>
								<span class="i3">I hear he’s come to Rome.</span>
							</span>
							<br/>
							<br/>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>I never knew man and beast, of a horse and a knight,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>So weary of each other. If he had had a good back,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>He would have undertook to have borne his horse,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>His breech was so pitifully sore.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Your laughter</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Is my pity.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Lady, I know not whether</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You want money, but I have brought you some.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>From my husband?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>
								<span class="i3">No, from mine own allowance.</span>
							</span>
							<br/>
							<br/>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>I must hear the condition, ere I be bound to take it.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Look on’t, ’tis gold; hath it not a fine colour?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>I have a bird more beautiful.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Try the sound on’t.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>A lute-string far exceeds it.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>It hath no smell, like cassia or civet;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Nor is it physical,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-65" id="noteref-65" epub:type="noteref">65</a> though some fond doctors</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Persuade us seethe’t in cullises.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-66" id="noteref-66" epub:type="noteref">66</a> I ‘ll tell you,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>This is a creature bred by⁠—</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter Servant</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Servant</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Your husband’s come,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Hath deliver’d a letter to the Duke of Calabria</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That, to my thinking, hath put him out of his wits.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Sir, you hear:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Pray, let me know your business and your suit</span>
							<br/>
							<span>As briefly as can be.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>With good speed: I would wish you,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>At such time as you are non-resident</span>
							<br/>
							<span>With your husband, my mistress.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Sir, I ‘ll go ask my husband if I shall,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And straight return your answer.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Very fine!</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Is this her wit, or honesty, that speaks thus?</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I heard one say the duke was highly mov’d</span>
							<br/>
							<span>With a letter sent from Malfi. I do fear</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Antonio is betray’d. How fearfully</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Shows his ambition now! Unfortunate fortune!</span>
							<br/>
							<span>They pass through whirl-pools, and deep woes do shun,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Who the event weigh ere the action’s done.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-2-5" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</span>
				</h3><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-67" id="noteref-67" epub:type="noteref">67</a>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</b> with a letter</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>I have this night digg’d up a mandrake.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-68" id="noteref-68" epub:type="noteref">68</a></span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Say you?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>And I am grown mad with’t.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">What’s the prodigy[?]</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Read there⁠—a sister damn’d: she’s loose i’ the hilts;<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-69" id="noteref-69" epub:type="noteref">69</a></span>
							<br/>
							<span>Grown a notorious strumpet.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>
								<span class="i3">Speak lower.</span>
							</span>
							<br/>
							<br/>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Lower!</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Rogues do not whisper’t now, but seek to publish’t</span>
							<br/>
							<span>(As servants do the bounty of their lords)</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Aloud; and with a covetous searching eye,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To mark who note them. O, confusion seize her!</span>
							<br/>
							<span>She hath had most cunning bawds to serve her turn,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And more secure conveyances for lust</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Than towns of garrison for service.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Is’t possible?</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Can this be certain?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Rhubarb, O, for rhubarb</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To purge this choler! Here’s the cursed day</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To prompt my memory; and here’t shall stick</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Till of her bleeding heart I make a sponge</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To wipe it out.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Why do you make yourself</span>
							<br/>
							<span>So wild a tempest?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Would I could be one,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That I might toss her palace ‘bout her ears,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Root up her goodly forests, blast her meads,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And lay her general territory as waste</span>
							<br/>
							<span>As she hath done her honours.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Shall our blood,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The royal blood of Arragon and Castile,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Be thus attainted?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Apply desperate physic:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>We must not now use balsamum, but fire,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The smarting cupping-glass, for that’s the mean</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To purge infected blood, such blood as hers.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>There is a kind of pity in mine eye⁠—</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I ‘ll give it to my handkercher; and now ’tis here,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I ‘ll bequeath this to her bastard.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">What to do?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Why, to make soft lint for his mother’s wounds,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>When I have hew’d her to pieces.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Curs’d creature!</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Unequal nature, to place women’s hearts</span>
							<br/>
							<span>So far upon the left side!<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-70" id="noteref-70" epub:type="noteref">70</a></span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Foolish men,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That e’er will trust their honour in a bark</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Made of so slight weak bulrush as is woman,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Apt every minute to sink it!</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Thus ignorance, when it hath purchas’d honour,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>It cannot wield it.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Methinks I see her laughing⁠—</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Excellent hyena! Talk to me somewhat quickly,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Or my imagination will carry me</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To see her in the shameful act of sin.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>With whom?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Happily with some strong-thigh’d bargeman,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Or one o’ th’ wood-yard that can quoit the sledge<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-71" id="noteref-71" epub:type="noteref">71</a></span>
							<br/>
							<span>Or toss the bar, or else some lovely squire</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That carries coals up to her privy lodgings.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>You fly beyond your reason.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Go to, mistress!</span>
							<br/>
							<span>’Tis not your whore’s milk that shall quench my wild-fire,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>But your whore’s blood.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>How idly shows this rage, which carries you,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>As men convey’d by witches through the air,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>On violent whirlwinds! This intemperate noise</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Fitly resembles deaf men’s shrill discourse,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Who talk aloud, thinking all other men</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To have their imperfection.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Have not you</span>
							<br/>
							<span>My palsy?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Yes, [but] I can be angry</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Without this rupture. There is not in nature</span>
							<br/>
							<span>A thing that makes man so deform’d, so beastly,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>As doth intemperate anger. Chide yourself.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You have divers men who never yet express’d</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Their strong desire of rest but by unrest,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>By vexing of themselves. Come, put yourself</span>
							<br/>
							<span>In tune.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>So I will only study to seem</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The thing I am not. I could kill her now,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>In you, or in myself; for I do think</span>
							<br/>
							<span>It is some sin in us heaven doth revenge</span>
							<br/>
							<span>By her.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>Are you stark mad?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>I would have their bodies</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Burnt in a coal-pit with the ventage stopp’d,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That their curs’d smoke might not ascend to heaven;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Or dip the sheets they lie in in pitch or sulphur,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Wrap them in’t, and then light them like a match;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Or else to-boil<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-72" id="noteref-72" epub:type="noteref">72</a> their bastard to a cullis,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And give’t his lecherous father to renew</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The sin of his back.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span>
								<span class="i3">I ‘ll leave you.</span>
							</span>
							<br/>
							<br/>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>
						<p epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<span class="i6">Nay, I have done.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I am confident, had I been damn’d in hell,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And should have heard of this, it would have put me</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Into a cold sweat. In, in; I ‘ll go sleep.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Till I know who [loves] my sister, I ‘ll not stir:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That known, I ‘ll find scorpions to string my whips,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And fix her in a general eclipse.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
