<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Act I</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-1" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
			</h2>
			<section id="scene-1-1" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-2" id="noteref-2" epub:type="noteref">2</a>
				</h3>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</b></i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>You are welcome to your country, dear Antonio;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You have been long in France, and you return</span>
							<br/>
							<span>A very formal Frenchman in your habit:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>How do you like the French court?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">I admire it:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>In seeking to reduce both state and people</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To a fix’d order, their judicious king</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Begins at home; quits first his royal palace</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Of flattering sycophants, of dissolute</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And infamous persons⁠—which he sweetly terms</span>
							<br/>
							<span>His master’s master-piece, the work of heaven;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Considering duly that a prince’s court</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Is like a common fountain, whence should flow</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Pure silver drops in general, but if’t chance</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Some curs’d example poison’t near the head,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Death and diseases through the whole land spread.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And what is’t makes this blessed government</span>
							<br/>
							<span>But a most provident council, who dare freely</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Inform him the corruption of the times?</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Though some o’ the court hold it presumption</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To instruct princes what they ought to do,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>It is a noble duty to inform them</span>
							<br/>
							<span>What they ought to foresee.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-3" id="noteref-3" epub:type="noteref">3</a>⁠—Here comes Bosola,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The only court-gall; yet I observe his railing</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Is not for simple love of piety:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Indeed, he rails at those things which he wants;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Would be as lecherous, covetous, or proud,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Bloody, or envious, as any man,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>If he had means to be so.⁠—Here’s the cardinal.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosala</b></i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>I do haunt you still.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>So.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>I have done you better service than to be slighted thus. Miserable age, where only the reward of doing well is the doing of it!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>You enforce your merit too much.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>I fell into the galleys in your service: where, for two years together, I wore two towels instead of a shirt, with a knot on the shoulder, after the fashion of a Roman mantle. Slighted thus! I will thrive some way. Black-birds fatten best in hard weather; why not I in these dog-days?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td>Would you could become honest!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>With all your divinity do but direct me the way to it. I have known many travel far for it, and yet return as arrant knaves as they went forth, because they carried themselves always along with them. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</b>.</i> Are you gone? Some fellows, they say, are possessed with the devil, but this great fellow were able to possess the greatest devil, and make him worse.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>He hath denied thee some suit?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>He and his brother are like plum-trees that grow crooked over standing-pools; they are rich and o’erladen with fruit, but none but crows, pies, and caterpillars feed on them. Could I be one of their flattering panders, I would hang on their ears like a horseleech, till I were full, and then drop off. I pray, leave me. Who would rely upon these miserable dependencies, in expectation to be advanc’d to-morrow? What creature ever fed worse than hoping Tantalus? Nor ever died any man more fearfully than he that hoped for a pardon. There are rewards for hawks and dogs when they have done us service; but for a soldier that hazards his limbs in a battle, nothing but a kind of geometry is his last supportation.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td>Geometry?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td>Ay, to hang in a fair pair of slings, take his latter swing in the world upon an honourable pair of crutches, from hospital to hospital. Fare ye well, sir: and yet do not you scorn us; for places in the court are but like beds in the hospital, where this man’s head lies at that man’s foot, and so lower and lower.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>I knew this fellow seven years in the galleys</span>
							<br/>
							<span>For a notorious murder; and ’twas thought</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The cardinal suborn’d it: he was releas’d</span>
							<br/>
							<span>By the French general, Gaston de Foix,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>When he recover’d Naples.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i4">’Tis great pity</span>
							<br/>
							<span>He should be thus neglected: I have heard</span>
							<br/>
							<span>He’s very valiant. This foul melancholy</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Will poison all his goodness; for, I ‘ll tell you,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>If too immoderate sleep be truly said</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To be an inward rust unto the soul,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>If then doth follow want of action</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Breeds all black malcontents; and their close rearing,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Like moths in cloth, do hurt for want of wearing.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-1-2" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
				</h3><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-4" id="noteref-4" epub:type="noteref">4</a>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</b>, [Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Silvio</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Castruccio</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Roderigo</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Grisolan</b>]</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>The presence ‘gins to fill: you promis’d me</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To make me the partaker of the natures</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Of some of your great courtiers.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i4">The lord cardinal’s</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And other strangers’ that are now in court?</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I shall.⁠—Here comes the great Calabrian duke.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</b> and Attendants</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>Who took the ring oftenest?<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-5" id="noteref-5" epub:type="noteref">5</a></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Silvio</td>
					<td>Antonio Bologna, my lord.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>Our sister duchess’ great-master of her household? Give him the jewel.⁠—When shall we leave this sportive action, and fall to action indeed?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Castruccio</td>
					<td>Methinks, my lord, you should not desire to go to war in person.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>Now for some gravity.⁠—Why, my lord?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Castruccio</td>
					<td>It is fitting a soldier arise to be a prince, but not necessary a prince descend to be a captain.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>No?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Castruccio</td>
					<td>No, my lord; he were far better do it by a deputy.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>Why should he not as well sleep or eat by a deputy? This might take idle, offensive, and base office from him, whereas the other deprives him of honour.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Castruccio</td>
					<td>Believe my experience, that realm is never long in quiet where the ruler is a soldier.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>Thou toldest me thy wife could not endure fighting.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Castruccio</td>
					<td>True, my lord.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>And of a jest she broke of<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-6" id="noteref-6" epub:type="noteref">6</a> a captain she met full of wounds: I have forgot it.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Castruccio</td>
					<td>he told him, my lord, he was a pitiful fellow, to lie, like the children of Ismael, all in tents.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-7" id="noteref-7" epub:type="noteref">7</a></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>Why, there’s a wit were able to undo all the chirurgeons<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-8" id="noteref-8" epub:type="noteref">8</a> o’ the city; for although gallants should quarrel, and had drawn their weapons, and were ready to go to it, yet her persuasions would make them put up.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Castruccio</td>
					<td>That she would, my lord.⁠—How do you like my Spanish gennet?<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-9" id="noteref-9" epub:type="noteref">9</a></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Roderigo</td>
					<td>He is all fire.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>I am of Pliny’s opinion, I think he was begot by the wind; he runs as if he were ballass’d<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-10" id="noteref-10" epub:type="noteref">10</a> with quicksilver.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Silvio</td>
					<td>True, my lord, he reels from the tilt often.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Roderigo, Grisolan</td>
					<td>Ha, ha, ha!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>Why do you laugh? Methinks you that are courtiers should be my touch-wood, take fire when I give fire; that is, laugh when I laugh, were the subject never so witty.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Castruccio</td>
					<td>True, my lord: I myself have heard a very good jest, and have scorn’d to seem to have so silly a wit as to understand it.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>But I can laugh at your fool, my lord.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Castruccio</td>
					<td>He cannot speak, you know, but he makes faces; my lady cannot abide him.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>No?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Castruccio</td>
					<td>Nor endure to be in merry company; for she says too much laughing, and too much company, fills her too full of the wrinkle.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>I would, then, have a mathematical instrument made for her face, that she might not laugh out of compass.⁠—I shall shortly visit you at Milan, Lord Silvio.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Silvio</td>
					<td>Your grace shall arrive most welcome.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">You are a good horseman, Antonio; you have excellent riders in France: what do you think of good horsemanship?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td>Nobly, my lord: as out of the Grecian horse issued many famous princes, so out of brave horsemanship arise the first sparks of growing resolution, that raise the mind to noble action.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td>You have bespoke it worthily.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Silvio</td>
					<td>Your brother, the lord cardinal, and sister duchess.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</b>, with <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</b>, and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cariola</b></i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Are the galleys come about?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Grisolan</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i4">They are, my lord.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Here’s the Lord Silvio is come to take his leave.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Now, sir, your promise: what’s that cardinal?</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I mean his temper? They say he’s a brave fellow,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Will play his five thousand crowns at tennis, dance,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Court ladies, and one that hath fought single combats.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Some such flashes superficially hang on him for form;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>but observe his inward character: he is a melancholy churchman.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The spring in his face is nothing but the engend’ring of toads;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>where he is jealous of any man, he lays worse plots for them than</span>
							<br/>
							<span>ever was impos’d on Hercules, for he strews in his way flatterers,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>panders, intelligencers, atheists, and a thousand such political</span>
							<br/>
							<span>monsters. He should have been Pope; but instead of coming to it</span>
							<br/>
							<span>by the primitive decency of the church, he did bestow bribes</span>
							<br/>
							<span>so largely and so impudently as if he would have carried it away</span>
							<br/>
							<span>without heaven’s knowledge. Some good he hath done⁠—</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>You have given too much of him. What’s his brother?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>The duke there? A most perverse and turbulent nature.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>What appears in him mirth is merely outside;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>If he laught heartily, it is to laugh</span>
							<br/>
							<span>All honesty out of fashion.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>
								<span class="i3">Twins?</span>
							</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">In quality.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>He speaks with others’ tongues, and hears men’s suits</span>
							<br/>
							<span>With others’ ears; will seem to sleep o’ the bench</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Only to entrap offenders in their answers;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Dooms men to death by information;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Rewards by hearsay.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Then the law to him</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Is like a foul, black cobweb to a spider⁠—</span>
							<br/>
							<span>He makes it his dwelling and a prison</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To entangle those shall feed him.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">Most true:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>He never pays debts unless they be shrewd turns,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And those he will confess that he doth owe.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Last, for this brother there, the cardinal,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>They that do flatter him most say oracles</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Hang at his lips; and verily I believe them,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>For the devil speaks in them.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>But for their sister, the right noble duchess,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You never fix’d your eye on three fair medals</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Cast in one figure, of so different temper.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>For her discourse, it is so full of rapture,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You only will begin then to be sorry</span>
							<br/>
							<span>When she doth end her speech, and wish, in wonder,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>She held it less vain-glory to talk much,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Than your penance to hear her. Whilst she speaks,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>She throws upon a man so sweet a look</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That it were able to raise one to a galliard.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-11" id="noteref-11" epub:type="noteref">11</a></span>
							<br/>
							<span>That lay in a dead palsy, and to dote</span>
							<br/>
							<span>On that sweet countenance; but in that look</span>
							<br/>
							<span>There speaketh so divine a continence</span>
							<br/>
							<span>As cuts off all lascivious and vain hope.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Her days are practis’d in such noble virtue,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That sure her nights, nay, more, her very sleeps,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Are more in heaven than other ladies’ shrifts.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Let all sweet ladies break their flatt’ring glasses,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And dress themselves in her.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">Fie, Antonio,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You play the wire-drawer with her commendations.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>I ‘ll case the picture up: only thus much;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>All her particular worth grows to this sum⁠—</span>
							<br/>
							<span>She stains<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-12" id="noteref-12" epub:type="noteref">12</a> the time past, lights the time to come.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cariola</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>You must attend my lady in the gallery,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Some half and hour hence.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>I shall.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Delio</b>.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Sister, I have a suit to you.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">To me, sir?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>A gentleman here, Daniel de Bosola,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>One that was in the galleys⁠—</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>
								<span class="i3">Yes, I know him.</span>
							</span>
</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>A worthy fellow he is: pray, let me entreat for</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The provisorship of your horse.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">Your knowledge of him</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Commends him and prefers him.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Call him hither.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit Attendant.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>We [are] now upon<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-13" id="noteref-13" epub:type="noteref">13</a> parting. Good Lord Silvio,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Do us commend to all our noble friends</span>
							<br/>
							<span>At the leaguer.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Silvio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>
								<span class="i3">Sir, I shall.</span>
							</span>
							<br/>
							<br/>
							<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">[<b epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess.</b></i> You are for Milan?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Silvio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>I am.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Bring the caroches.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-14" id="noteref-14" epub:type="noteref">14</a>⁠—We ‘ll bring you down</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To the haven.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Silvio</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Castruccio</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Roderigo</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Grisolan</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cariola</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Julia</b>, and Attendants.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Be sure you entertain that Bosola</span>
							<br/>
							<span>For your intelligence.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-15" id="noteref-15" epub:type="noteref">15</a> I would not be seen in’t;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And therefore many times I have slighted him</span>
							<br/>
							<span>When he did court our furtherance, as this morning.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Antonio, the great-master of her household,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Had been far fitter.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>You are deceiv’d in him.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>His nature is too honest for such business.⁠—</span>
							<br/>
							<span>He comes: I ‘ll leave you.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosala</b></i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>
								<span class="i3">I was lur’d to you.</span>
							</span>
</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>My brother, here, the cardinal, could never</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Abide you.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Never since he was in my debt.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>May be some oblique character in your face</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Made him suspect you.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Doth he study physiognomy?</span>
							<br/>
							<span>There’s no more credit to be given to the face</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Than to a sick man’s urine, which some call</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The physician’s whore, because she cozens<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-16" id="noteref-16" epub:type="noteref">16</a> him.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>He did suspect me wrongfully.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>For that</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You must give great men leave to take their times.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Distrust doth cause us seldom be deceiv’d.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You see the oft shaking of the cedar-tree</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Fastens it more at root.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Yet take heed;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>For to suspect a friend unworthily</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Instructs him the next way to suspect you,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And prompts him to deceive you.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>
								<span class="i3">There’s gold.</span>
							</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">So:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>What follows? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> Never rain’d such showers as these</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Without thunderbolts i’ the tail of them.⁠—Whose throat must I cut?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Your inclination to shed blood rides post</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Before my occasion to use you. I give you that</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To live i’ the court here, and observe the duchess;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To note all the particulars of her haviour,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>What suitors do solicit her for marriage,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And whom she best affects. She’s a young widow:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I would not have her marry again.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">No, sir?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Do not you ask the reason; but be satisfied.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I say I would not.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>It seems you would create me</span>
							<br/>
							<span>One of your familiars.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>
								<span class="i3">Familiar! What’s that?</span>
							</span>
</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Why, a very quaint invisible devil in flesh⁠—</span>
							<br/>
							<span>An intelligencer.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-17" id="noteref-17" epub:type="noteref">17</a></span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Such a kind of thriving thing</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I would wish thee; and ere long thou mayst arrive</span>
							<br/>
							<span>At a higher place by’t.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Take your devils,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Which hell calls angels! These curs’d gifts would make</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You a corrupter, me an impudent traitor;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And should I take these, they’d take me [to] hell.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Sir, I ‘ll take nothing from you that I have given.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>There is a place that I procur’d for you</span>
							<br/>
							<span>This morning, the provisorship o’ the horse;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Have you heard on’t?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>
								<span class="i3">No.</span>
							</span>
</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>
								<span class="i3">’Tis yours: is’t not worth thanks?</span>
							</span>
</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>I would have you curse yourself now, that your bounty</span>
							<br/>
							<span>(Which makes men truly noble) e’er should make me</span>
							<br/>
							<span>A villain. O, that to avoid ingratitude</span>
							<br/>
							<span>For the good deed you have done me, I must do</span>
							<br/>
							<span>All the ill man can invent! Thus the devil</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Candies all sins o’er; and what heaven terms vile,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That names he complimental.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Be yourself;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Keep your old garb of melancholy; ’twill express</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You envy those that stand above your reach,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Yet strive not to come near ’em. This will gain</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Access to private lodgings, where yourself</span>
							<br/>
							<span>May, like a politic dormouse⁠—</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">As I have seen some</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Feed in a lord’s dish, half asleep, not seeming</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To listen to any talk; and yet these rogues</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Have cut his throat in a dream. What’s my place?</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The provisorship o’ the horse? Say, then, my corruption</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Grew out of horse-dung: I am your creature.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">Away!</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bosola</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Let good men, for good deeds, covet good fame,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Since place and riches oft are bribes of shame.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Sometimes the devil doth preach.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-1-3" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-18" id="noteref-18" epub:type="noteref">18</a>
				</h3>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</b>, and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cariola</b></i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>We are to part from you; and your own discretion</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Must now be your director.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>You are a widow:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You know already what man is; and therefore</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Let not youth, high promotion, eloquence⁠—</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>No,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Nor anything without the addition, honour,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Sway your high blood.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Marry! they are most luxurious<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-19" id="noteref-19" epub:type="noteref">19</a></span>
							<br/>
							<span>Will wed twice.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>
								<span class="i1">O, fie!</span>
							</span>
</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Their livers are more spotted</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Than Laban’s sheep.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-20" id="noteref-20" epub:type="noteref">20</a></span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Diamonds are of most value,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>They say, that have pass’d through most jewellers’ hands.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Whores by that rule are precious.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">Will you hear me?</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I ‘ll never marry.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>So most widows say;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>But commonly that motion lasts no longer</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Than the turning of an hour-glass: the funeral sermon</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And it end both together.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Now hear me:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You live in a rank pasture, here, i’ the court;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>There is a kind of honey-dew that’s deadly;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>‘T will poison your fame; look to’t. Be not cunning;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>For they whose faces do belie their hearts</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Are witches ere they arrive at twenty years,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Ay, and give the devil suck.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>This is terrible good counsel.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Hypocrisy is woven of a fine small thread,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Subtler than Vulcan’s engine:<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-21" id="noteref-21" epub:type="noteref">21</a> yet, believe’t,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Your darkest actions, nay, your privat’st thoughts,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Will come to light.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>You may flatter yourself,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And take your own choice; privately be married</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Under the eaves of night⁠—</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Think’t the best voyage</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That e’er you made; like the irregular crab,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Which, though’t goes backward, thinks that it goes right</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Because it goes its own way: but observe,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Such weddings may more properly be said</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To be executed than celebrated.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">The marriage night</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Is the entrance into some prison.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">And those joys,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Those lustful pleasures, are like heavy sleeps</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Which do fore-run man’s mischief.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cardinal</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">Fare you well.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Wisdom begins at the end: remember it.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>I think this speech between you both was studied,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>It came so roundly off.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ferdinand</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>You are my sister;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>This was my father’s poniard, do you see?</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I’d be loth to see’t look rusty, ‘cause ’twas his.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I would have you give o’er these chargeable revels:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>A visor and a mask are whispering-rooms</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That were never built for goodness⁠—fare ye well⁠—</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And women like variety of courtship.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>What cannot a neat knave with a smooth tale</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Make a woman believe? Farewell, lusty widow.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Shall this move me? If all my royal kindred</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Lay in my way unto this marriage,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I’d make them my low footsteps. And even now,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Even in this hate, as men in some great battles,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>By apprehending danger, have achiev’d</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Almost impossible actions (I have heard soldiers say so),</span>
							<br/>
							<span>So I through frights and threatenings will assay</span>
							<br/>
							<span>This dangerous venture. Let old wives report</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I wink’d and chose a husband.⁠—Cariola,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To thy known secrecy I have given up</span>
							<br/>
							<span>More than my life⁠—my fame.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cariola</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Both shall be safe;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>For I ‘ll conceal this secret from the world</span>
							<br/>
							<span>As warily as those that trade in poison</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Keep poison from their children.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">Thy protestation</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Is ingenious and hearty; I believe it.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Is Antonio come?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cariola</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>
								<span class="i3">He attends you.</span>
							</span>
</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">Good dear soul,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Leave me; but place thyself behind the arras,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Where thou mayst overhear us. Wish me good speed;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>For I am going into a wilderness,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Where I shall find nor path nor friendly clue</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To be my guide.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cariola</b> goes behind the arras.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</b></i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i3">I sent for you: sit down;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Take pen and ink, and write: are you ready?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">Yes.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>What did I say?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>That I should write somewhat.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">O, I remember.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>After these triumphs and this large expense</span>
							<br/>
							<span>It’s fit, like thrifty husbands,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-22" id="noteref-22" epub:type="noteref">22</a> we inquire</span>
							<br/>
							<span>What’s laid up for to-morrow.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>So please your beauteous excellence.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">Beauteous!</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Indeed, I thank you. I look young for your sake;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You have ta’en my cares upon you.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">I ‘ll fetch your grace</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The particulars of your revenue and expense.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>O, you are</span>
							<br/>
							<span>An upright treasurer: but you mistook;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>For when I said I meant to make inquiry</span>
							<br/>
							<span>What’s laid up for to-morrow, I did mean</span>
							<br/>
							<span>What’s laid up yonder for me.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">Where?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">In heaven.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I am making my will (as ’tis fit princes should,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>In perfect memory), and, I pray, sir, tell me,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Were not one better make it smiling, thus,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Than in deep groans and terrible ghastly looks,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>As if the gifts we parted with procur’d<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-23" id="noteref-23" epub:type="noteref">23</a></span>
							<br/>
							<span>That violent distraction?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>
								<span class="i3">O, much better.</span>
							</span>
</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>If I had a husband now, this care were quit:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>But I intend to make you overseer.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>What good deed shall we first remember? Say.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Begin with that first good deed began i’ the world</span>
							<br/>
							<span>After man’s creation, the sacrament of marriage;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I’d have you first provide for a good husband;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Give him all.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>
								<span class="i1">All!</span>
							</span>
</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>
								<span class="i3">Yes, your excellent self.</span>
							</span>
</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>In a winding-sheet?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>
								<span class="i3">In a couple.</span>
							</span>
</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Saint Winifred, that were a strange will!</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>’Twere stranger<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-24" id="noteref-24" epub:type="noteref">24</a> if there were no will in you</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To marry again.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>
								<span class="i1">What do you think of marriage?</span>
							</span>
</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>I take’t, as those that deny purgatory,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>It locally contains or heaven or hell;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>There’s no third place in’t.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">How do you affect it?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>My banishment, feeding my melancholy,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Would often reason thus.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>
								<span class="i3">Pray, let’s hear it.</span>
							</span>
</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Say a man never marry, nor have children,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>What takes that from him? Only the bare name</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Of being a father, or the weak delight</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To see the little wanton ride a-cock-horse</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Upon a painted stick, or hear him chatter</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Like a taught starling.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Fie, fie, what’s all this?</span>
							<br/>
							<span>One of your eyes is blood-shot; use my ring to’t.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>They say ’tis very sovereign. ’Twas my wedding-ring,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And I did vow never to part with it</span>
							<br/>
							<span>But to my second husband.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>You have parted with it now.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Yes, to help your eye-sight.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>You have made me stark blind.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>How?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>There is a saucy and ambitious devil</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Is dancing in this circle.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>
								<span class="i3">Remove him.</span>
							</span>
</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>How?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>There needs small conjuration, when your finger</span>
							<br/>
							<span>May do it: thus. Is it fit?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She puts the ring upon his finger: he kneels.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>
								<span class="i3">What said you?</span>
							</span>
</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">Sir,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>This goodly roof of yours is too low built;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I cannot stand upright in’t nor discourse,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Without I raise it higher. Raise yourself;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Or, if you please, my hand to help you: so.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Raises him.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Ambition, madam, is a great man’s madness,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That is not kept in chains and close-pent rooms,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>But in fair lightsome lodgings, and is girt</span>
							<br/>
							<span>With the wild noise of prattling visitants,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Which makes it lunatic beyond all cure.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Conceive not I am so stupid but I aim<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-25" id="noteref-25" epub:type="noteref">25</a></span>
							<br/>
							<span>Whereto your favours tend: but he’s a fool</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That, being a-cold, would thrust his hands i’ the fire</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To warm them.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>So, now the ground’s broke,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You may discover what a wealthy mine</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I make your lord of.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>
								<span class="i3">O my unworthiness!</span>
							</span>
</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>You were ill to sell yourself:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>This dark’ning of your worth is not like that</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Which tradesmen use i’ the city; their false lights</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Are to rid bad wares off: and I must tell you,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>If you will know where breathes a complete man</span>
							<br/>
							<span>(I speak it without flattery), turn your eyes,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And progress through yourself.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Were there nor heaven nor hell,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I should be honest: I have long serv’d virtue,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And ne’er ta’en wages of her.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Now she pays it.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The misery of us that are born great!</span>
							<br/>
							<span>We are forc’d to woo, because none dare woo us;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And as a tyrant doubles with his words,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And fearfully equivocates, so we</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Are forc’d to express our violent passions</span>
							<br/>
							<span>In riddles and in dreams, and leave the path</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Of simple virtue, which was never made</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To seem the thing it is not. Go, go brag</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You have left me heartless; mine is in your bosom:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I hope ’twill multiply love there. You do tremble:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Make not your heart so dead a piece of flesh,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To fear more than to love me. Sir, be confident:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>What is’t distracts you? This is flesh and blood, sir;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>’Tis not the figure cut in alabaster</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Kneels at my husband’s tomb. Awake, awake, man!</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I do here put off all vain ceremony,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And only do appear to you a young widow</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That claims you for her husband, and, like a widow,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I use but half a blush in’t.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Truth speak for me;</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I will remain the constant sanctuary</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Of your good name.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>I thank you, gentle love:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And ‘cause you shall not come to me in debt,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Being now my steward, here upon your lips</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I sign your Quietus est.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-26" id="noteref-26" epub:type="noteref">26</a> This you should have begg’d now.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I have seen children oft eat sweetmeats thus,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>As fearful to devour them too soon.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>But for your brothers?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span class="i6">Do not think of them:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>All discord without this circumference</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Is only to be pitied, and not fear’d:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Yet, should they know it, time will easily</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Scatter the tempest.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>These words should be mine,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>And all the parts you have spoke, if some part of it</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Would not have savour’d flattery.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Kneel.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cariola</b> comes from behind the arras.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>
								<span class="i3">Ha!</span>
							</span>
</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Be not amaz’d; this woman’s of my counsel:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I have heard lawyers say, a contract in a chamber</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Per verba [de] presenti<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-27" id="noteref-27" epub:type="noteref">27</a> is absolute marriage.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</b> kneel.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Bless, heaven, this sacred gordian<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-28" id="noteref-28" epub:type="noteref">28</a> which let violence</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Never untwine!</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>And may our sweet affections, like the spheres,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Be still in motion!</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Quickening, and make</span>
							<br/>
							<span>The like soft music!</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>That we may imitate the loving palms,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Best emblem of a peaceful marriage,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That never bore fruit, divided!</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>What can the church force more?</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>That fortune may not know an accident,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Either of joy or sorrow, to divide</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Our fixed wishes!</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>How can the church build faster?<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-29" id="noteref-29" epub:type="noteref">29</a></span>
							<br/>
							<span>We now are man and wife, and ’tis the church</span>
							<br/>
							<span>That must but echo this.⁠—Maid, stand apart:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>I now am blind.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>
								<span class="i1">What’s your conceit in this?</span>
							</span>
</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>I would have you lead your fortune by the hand</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Unto your marriage-bed:</span>
							<br/>
							<span>(You speak in me this, for we now are one:)</span>
							<br/>
							<span>We ‘ll only lie and talk together, and plot</span>
							<br/>
							<span>To appease my humorous<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-30" id="noteref-30" epub:type="noteref">30</a> kindred; and if you please,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Like the old tale in <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">Alexander and Lodowick</i>,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Lay a naked sword between us, keep us chaste.</span>
							<br/>
							<span>O, let me shrowd my blushes in your bosom,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Since ’tis the treasury of all my secrets!</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Duchess</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</b>.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cariola</td>
					<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Whether the spirit of greatness or of woman</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Reign most in her, I know not; but it shows</span>
							<br/>
							<span>A fearful madness. I owe her much of pity.</span>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
